{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv{\*\falt Arial};}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}{\f13\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Book Antiqua;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Monotype Sorts;}
{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman Old Style;}{\f17\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Gothic;}{\f18\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Monotype Corsiva;}{\f19\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Schoolbook;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f21\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f22\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Algerian;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Rounded MT Bold;}{\f24\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Braggadocio;}
{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Britannic Bold;}{\f26\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Brush Script MT;}{\f27\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Colonna MT;}{\f28\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Desdemona;}{\f29\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Footlight MT Light;}
{\f30\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f31\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Kino MT;}{\f32\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Wide Latin;}{\f33\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Matura MT Script Capitals;}{\f34\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Playbill;}{\f35\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Sign Language;}
{\f36\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Animals 1;}{\f37\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Animals 2;}{\f38\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Charting;}{\f39\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Clocks;}{\f40\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 GeographicSymbols;}{\f41\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 HomePlanning;}
{\f42\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Kidnap;}{\f43\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 LandscapePlanning;}{\f44\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 HomePlanning2;}{\f45\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 MorseCode;}{\f46\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Music;}{\f47\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 MusicalSymbols;}
{\f48\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 OfficePlanning;}{\f49\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Semaphore;}{\f50\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Signs;}{\f51\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 ZapfDingbats BT;}{\f52\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 SymbolProp BT;}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset2\fprq2 CommonBullets;}
{\f54\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 AvantGarde Bk BT;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 AvantGarde Md BT;}{\f56\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Fences;}{\f57\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Albertus (W1);}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Albertus Xb (W1);}
{\f59\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Antique Olv (W1);}{\f60\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Omega (W1);}{\f61\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Times (W1);}{\f62\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Clarendon Cd (W1);}{\f63\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Coronet (W1);}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier (W1);}{\f65\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Garmond (W1);}{\f66\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Letter Gothic (W1);}{\f67\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 LinePrinter;}{\f68\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Marigold (W1);}
{\f69\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers (W1);}{\f70\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers Cd (W1);}{\f71\froman\fcharset255\fprq2 Roman;}{\f72\fscript\fcharset255\fprq2 Script;}{\f73\fmodern\fcharset255\fprq2 Modern;}{\f74\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq1 MS Dialog;}
{\f75\fnil\fcharset0\fprq1 Small Fonts;}{\f76\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Times (WN);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f5\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\sb60\sa120\keepn \f5\fs32\cf13 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\li360\ri360\sb120 \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\li360 \f5\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\sb240\sa60 \f5\fs22 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60 \i\f5\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\sb240\sa60 \i\f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60 \i\f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*
\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 Topic Text;}{\s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \sbasedon0\snext15 Topic Heading;}{\s17\li180 \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext16 Topic Caption;}{\s18\fi-360\li1080\sb120 \b\f5\fs20 
\sbasedon15\snext18 Topic Text Item;}{\s19\li720\ri720\sb60 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon15\snext19 Topic Text Indent;}{\s20\li720 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext20 Normal Indent;}{\s21 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext21 footnote text;}{\*\cs22 \additive\super \sbasedon10 
footnote reference;}{\s23\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}{\s24\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext24 footer;}{\s25\li360\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext25 Body Text Indent;}{\s26\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext26 
Body Text;}{\s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon0\snext27 Topic Heading 1;}{\s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon0\snext28 Topic Heading 2;}{\s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 \sbasedon0\snext29 Topic Heading 3;}{\s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext30 Topic Text 2;}{\s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext31 Topic Text 3;}{\s32 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 footnote;}{\s33 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \sbasedon0\snext33 Topic Title;}{\s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Topic Text 1;}{\*
\cs35 \additive\i\v\f5\fs20\cf6\nosupersub\kerning0 \sbasedon10 topic jump context;}{\*\cs36 \additive\f5\fs20\uldb\cf11\nosupersub \sbasedon10 topic jump text;}{\*\cs37 \additive\v\f5\fs20\ul\cf12\nosupersub \sbasedon10 topic popup text;}{
\s38\fi-360\li360 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext38 List;}{\s39\fi-360\li360\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'a8}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon38\snext39 List Bullet;}{\s40\fi-360\li360\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon38\snext40 List Number;}{\s41\sb120\keepn\pagebb \caps\f4\fs40\expnd8\expndtw42\kerning56 \sbasedon0\snext0 Chapter Label;}{\s42\fi-280\li280\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext42 index 1;}{\s43\fi-280\li560\tqr\tx4320 
\f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext43 index 2;}{\s44\fi-280\li840\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext44 index 3;}{\*\cs45 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s46\fi-280\li1120\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext46 index 4;}{
\s47\fi-280\li1400\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext47 index 5;}{\s48\qc\sb240\sa120 \b\f4\fs26 \sbasedon0\snext42 index heading;}{\*\cs49 \additive\f5\fs22 \sbasedon10 line number;}{\s50\fi-360\li1440\sa80\tx1440 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon38\snext50 List 3;}{
\s51\fi-360\li1800\sa80\tx1800 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon38\snext51 List 4;}{\s52\fi-360\li2160\sa80\tx2160 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon38\snext52 List 5;}{\s53\fi-360\li1440\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnfs16\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs28 
\sbasedon39\snext53 List Bullet 3;}{\s54\fi-360\li1800\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnfs16\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon39\snext54 List Bullet 4;}{\s55\fi-360\li2160\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnfs16\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang
{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon39\snext55 List Bullet 5;}{\s56\sb360\tqr\tx9360 \b\caps\f5 \sbasedon0\snext56 toc 1;}{\s57\li280\sb240\tqr\tx9360 \b\f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext57 toc 2;}{\s58\li560\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext58 toc 3;}{
\s59\li840\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext59 toc 4;}{\s60\fi-360\li1080\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon40\snext60 List Number 2;}{\s61\keep\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext61 
Header Base;}{\s62\li1440\keep\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \b\f5\fs28 \sbasedon23\snext62 Header Even;}{\s63\qc\keep\tqc\tx4320 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon23\snext63 Header First;}{\s64\qr\ri1440\keep\tqr\tx0\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \b\f5\fs28 \sbasedon23\snext64 
Header Odd;}{\s65\sb240\sa120\keepn \b\f5\fs36\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext26 Heading Base;}{\s66\fi-360\li1440\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon40\snext66 List Number 3;}{\s67\li1120\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext67 toc 5;}{\s68\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \f5\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext68 TOC Base;}{\s69\qj\sb120\sa120\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp40 \shading500 \f5\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext69 Box Text;}{\s70\fi-360\li1080\sa80\tx1080 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon38\snext70 List 2;}{
\s71\fi-360\li1080\sa160{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnfs16\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs28 \sbasedon39\snext71 List Bullet 2;}{\s72\qc\sb360\sa160\keepn \b\f5\fs96\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext72 Title;}{
\s73\sb480\sa480\pvpara\phmrg\posxc\posy0\dxfrtext360\dfrmtxtx360\dfrmtxty0\nowrap \f5\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext73 Picture Frame;}{\s74\sb240\sa120\keepn\pagebb \b\scaps\f5\fs44\kerning28 \sbasedon1\snext74 Heading 10;}{\s75\qc\sb120\sa160\keepn 
\b\f5\fs32\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 Title Text;}{\s76\qj \f4\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext76 License Text;}{\s77\li720\sa120 \f11\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext77 Command Line;}{\s78\qc\sb720\sa160\keepn \b\f5\fs96\kerning28 \sbasedon65\snext0 Title Cover;}{
\s79\fi-720\li720\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext79 table of figures;}{\s80\sa160 \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon26\snext80 macro;}{\s81\li1400\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 6;}{\s82\li1680\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 7;}{
\s83\li1960\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 8;}{\s84\li2240\tqr\tx9360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 9;}{\s85\li360\sa120 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext85 List Continue;}{\s86\fi-280\li1680\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 6;}{
\s87\fi-280\li1960\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 7;}{\s88\fi-280\li2240\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 8;}{\s89\fi-280\li2520\tqr\tx4320 \f4\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 9;}{\s90\li720\sa120 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext90 
List Continue 2;}{\s91\li1080\sa120 \f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext91 List Continue 3;}}{\info{\title # Audio Toolbox}{\author Keith B. Knight}{\operator Keith B. Knight}{\creatim\yr1995\mo9\dy19\min9}{\revtim\yr1995\mo9\dy19\min43}
{\printim\yr1995\mo9\dy24\hr13\min38}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49203}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\linkstyles\hyphcaps0 \fet0{\*\template 
E:\\BETDEV\\VFEDEV\\HLPDEV\\WINHLP.DOT}\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \keepn \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super {\*\bkmkstart ANCHOR}#{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} contents}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} contents}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} contents}} {\b\i\fs48\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart TITLE}{\*\bkmkend ANCHOR}VF
{\*\bkmkstart ROBOHELP}{\*\bkmkend ROBOHELP}Edit}{\fs48\cf13\super \'ae}{\b\fs28  }The Professional Prompt Editor\line {\f4\fs36\cf15 Voice Information Systems, Inc.{\*\bkmkend TITLE}
\par }{\cs36\fs16\uldb\cf11 Company Information}{\cs35\v\f11\cf6 refAbtVIS}\tab {\cs36\fs16\uldb\cf11 Other Products}{\cs35\v\f11\cf6 refOthPrd}\tab {\cs36\fs16\uldb\cf11 Technical Support}{\cs35\v\f11\cf6 refTchSup}{\f4\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 210 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}} is a graphical audio editor that lets you \ldblquote see\rdblquote 
 the binary numbers that have been stored on your computer hard disk by your telephony or multimedia hardware. {\b\i VFEdit} knows how to translate these digitized and encoded audio signals into a picture that is meaningful to you and me. Similarly, {
\b\i VFEdit} knows how to take common editing commands such as \ldblquote Play\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Cut\rdblquote  and perform the requested operation on the hardware and the data. {\b\i VFEdit}
 provides a convenient user interface for recording new sounds and playing back audio already recorded. And {\b\i VFEdit} has been specifically designed to deal with the specialized hardware and audio formats used by telephony systems.
\par Our full-scr
een graphical interface provides a super accurate representation of the audio waveform for precise editing. Quickly perform basic functions like record, play, crop, cut, copy and paste anywhere within a file, plus more sophisticated operations such as imp
ort/export, fade and echo. Our conversion-free direct-to-disk technology lets you review edits instantly and work with any length file.
\par The basic reason to use {\b\i VFEdit} is that you simply want your audio presentations to sound good\emdash just as you want your writt
en presentations to look good. If you develop for voice processing, or if you only change, fix, and improve your voice prompts, you`ll find {\b\i VFEdit} just about indispensable. Satisfying. Fun, too!
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Contents
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 Technical Capabilities List}{\v refTechnicalCapabilities}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Editing Audio Files}{\v refAudDoc}
\par 
\par {\fs16 This publication could include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these changes will be incorporated in new editions. The publisher reserves the right to ma
ke improvements and/or changes in the product and/or program described herein at any time. Copyright \'a9
 1987-1996 Andrew J. Michalik. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means without prior permission in writing.
\par }\pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refAbtVIS}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Company Information}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Company Information}}About Voice Information System, Inc
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Voice Information Systems, Inc specializes in the application and development of digital signal processing techniques to the interacti
ve telephony market. Current VISI products include software for editing and manipulating digital sound and programming tools to simplify integration of custom applications
\par \pard \s34\li180\sb120\tx1080 {\b Sales:\tab 1-800-234-VISI\tab (+310-392-8780)\line Fax:\tab 1-800-234-FXIT\tab (+310-392-5511)\line Web:\tab http://www.vinfo.com/\line email:\tab sales@vinfo.com
\par }\pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refTchSup}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Technical Support}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Technical Support}}Technical Support
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 As easy as our products are to use, there are times when you just can`t manage on your own. Or maybe you don`t have the time to search the m
anual for answers. Or perhaps you just have a general problem that`s frustrating you.
\par That`s why we offer comprehensive support for all of our products, as well as any voice or telephony problems that may arise. We offer help in several ways, so you can choose the plan that`s right for you. Let our extensive knowledge of this technology an
d troubleshooting expertise work for you.
\par VISI offers a number of comprehensive technical support options for users. For more information, call 1-310-392-8780. VISI support services are subject to VISI prices, terms, and conditions in place at the time the service is used.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 When you call...
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 When you call, you should be at your computer and have the appropriate product documentation at hand. Be prepared to give the following information:
\par \pard\plain \s19\li720\ri720\sb60 \f5\fs20 The product name and serial number of the VISI product you are using.
\par The type of hardware you are using
\par The exact wording of any messages that appeared on your screen.
\par What happened and what you were doing when the problem occurred.
\par How you tried to solve the problem.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Setup and Installation
\par \pard\plain \s19\li720\ri720\sb60 \f5\fs20 For setup and installation assistance with VISI products, dial 1-310-392-6266. This service is designed to get you up and running quickly with our products.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 How-to and in-depth support
\par \pard\plain \s19\li720\ri720\sb60 \f5\fs20 For programming \ldblquote how to\rdblquote 
 questions, user training, and support for non-VISI products, dial our credit card line at 1-800-469-4874. Please have your Visa, MasterCard, or American Express card ready.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Download Service
\par \pard\plain \s19\li720\ri720\sb60 \f5\fs20 Access technical notes and supplementary files covering common VISI product support issues are available on our website at {\b www.vinfo.com}. These services are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Free and Paid Support
\par \pard\plain \s19\li720\ri720\sb60 \f5\fs20 Our free technical support covers setup, installation, bug reporting and product menu usage. Our free technical support does not cover programming \ldblquote how to\rdblquote 
 questions, user training, and support for non-VISI products.
\par Why not? The time required to answer these questions depends on the customer`s technical background and specific needs. These factors vary dramatically from customer to customer, and there is no way for us to charge for these services at a fixed rate.

\par The solution? We provide paid consulting services for customers that need help with programming \ldblquote how to\rdblquote  questions, user training and support for non-VISI products.
\par And for your protection, all of our consulting contracts are pre-paid, so we will not perform any work until authorized by you.
\par VISI offers a number of comprehensive technical support options for users. For more information, call 1-310-392-8780. VISI support services are subject to VISI prices, terms, and conditions in place at the time the service is used.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refOthPrd}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Other Products}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Other Products}}Other Products Available from VISI
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\i\fs24 Audio ToolBox\'99: The Digital Audio\line Batch Processor and Converter
\par }\pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Save time & sound great! {\b\i Audio ToolBox} lets you batch process and convert your digital audio files to and from industry standard formats. {\b\i Audio ToolBox}
 is a professional quality conversion utility for the MS-DOS{\super \'ae} and Microsoft Windows{\super \'ae} operating system.
\par Convert to and from Microsoft Multimedia Wave (8, 16 & MS ADPCM), linear 16 and unsigned 8 bit, Dialogic 4 and 8 bit, plus other industry standard formats. {\b\i Audio ToolBox}
 lets you convert files recorded at 22kHz, 11 kHz, 8 kHz and 6 kHz -- and provides filters for proper re-sampling.
\par Automatically chop a single recording session into separate files -- normalize the volume across multiple files -- recombine them into an indexed file. Add dynamic compression / expansion for improved sound, auto-crop silence from both ends, even filter D
TMF Touch-Tones to eliminate \ldblquote talk-off\rdblquote  application errors. And {\b\i Audio ToolBox} handles files of any length- in less than 256K of memory!
\par Now you can record, edit and review prompts with your Multimedia system, then batch process and transfer them with enhanced fidelity!
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\i\fs24 Windows Developers: Voice Mail Now!\line TI/F DLL\'99: The Microsoft Windows Voice Mail Driver
\par }\pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Voice developers rave about {\b\i TI/F DLL}{\b\i {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 228 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}}
 because it makes their life easy! With it, developing voice apps with VB, C, and C++ is a breeze.
\par How? By letting you make standard driver function calls from your windows apps, letting you port your voice program in record time.
\par Add Voice Mail power to your Windows applications with our Telephone Interface (TI/F) Dynamic Link Library (DLL). Use C or C++ or Visual Basic to create applications for Windows without wanting to jump out of one. And use {\b\i TI/F DLL}
 to control your Dialogic (and compatible) voice communications hardware.
\par {\i \ldblquote To the advanced programmer looking for the serious tool with all the teeth of a great white shark, TI/F DLL will provide you with all of the bite you can handle.\rdblquote \line -Robert Cristello, Computer Telephony Magazine.
\par }\pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\i\fs24 Teach Your Apps to Read: No Hardware!\line VoxFonts\'99: The Software Only Text-to-Speech Library
\par }\pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VoxFonts}{\b\i {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 228 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}}{\b\i :} The \ldblquote Software Only\rdblquote 
 Text-to-Speech Library, lets you add an unlimited vocabulary to applications. This means your PC can literally {\i read} text out loud! {\b\i VoxFonts}
 is a text to speech synthesis library that translates ASCII text into a digital audio file. Then play that file through your existing voice hardware.
\par {\b\i VoxFonts} gives you Microsoft \ldblquote C\rdblquote  DOS & Windows callable functions for converting an ASCII text string into a digital file. No more hours of recording to produce every possible messa
ge - your vocabulary`s now unlimited, just a function call away!
\par No more hours of recording to produce every possible message{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 190 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}}your vocabulary`s now unlimited, just a function call away!
\par No more hours of recording to produce every possible message -- your vocabulary`s now unlimited, just a function call away!
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\i\fs24 Simplify Transcription:\line Scribe\'99: The Essential Speech to Text Transcription Tool
\par }\pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Do you have thousands of files to transcribe?
\par Do you need to quickly review files when working at the DOS prompt?
\par Do you need to hear the contents of a file - but don`t have your telephony board nearby?
\par Then let our {\b\i Scribe}{\b\i {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 228 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}}, playback utility help you review and transcribe digitally recorded files.
\par {\b\i Scribe} is a Command Line and TSR (Terminate & Stay Resident) utility that plays digital audio files without the need for additional hardware. It`s like turning your PC into a dictation machine!
\par {\b\i Scribe} gives you single keystroke play, pause, and more through the PC speaker. 
Attach our audio adapter (included) for higher fidelity playback. Add sound to your DOS batch files or run in the background with your current word processor and data entry software.
\par No more fooling with recorders or phone sets - it`s all at your fingertips, just a keystroke away!
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refTechnicalCapabilities}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Technical Capabilities}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {
\cs22\super K} Technical Capabilities List;Capabilities}}Capabilities List
\par \pard\plain \s26\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} is the {\b only} native mode, direct-to-disk, integrated audio editor for the Microsoft Windows{\super \'ae} environment. N
ative mode means you can edit compressed PCM instantly without losing fidelity with conversions. Direct-to-disk capability lets you edit files of any size. Integrated editing lets you work on files in one format\emdash 
while playing and recording them in another. Why? So you can create perfect prompts for your applications.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Main Features:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Powerful Editing Tools: Cut, Copy, Paste, anywhere within a file; Export to, Import from and Mix from additional files. Erase, Crop and Generate DTMF or user selected tones. Sele
ct part of a file, the whole file and Jump To any position in a file.
\par Superior Graphical Display: View your file as you edit with the full screen waveform display. Zoom In to edit at single sample precision, Zoom Out to any user defined resolution. Zoom to Fit your current selection for full screen control.
\par Flexible File Handling: Open a file for editing, Save your work, Revert if you make a mistake; or create a New file, and Save As a new name. Import and Export 16 bit linear files from other audio formats. 
\par Audio Effects & Enhancement: Reduce noise, add echo, adjust volume, fade in and out with our Effects features.
\par Fast & Accurate: Internal calculations performed to one sample accuracy. ADPCM guard calculations insure an accurate display. Fast conversion algorithms translate more than 100,000 samples per second.
\par Play & Record: Play and Record anywhere within a file; Play Loop to listen over and over.
\par Configurable: User configurable file, view, effects, play and record parameters. Edit multiple files on multiple lines from multiple edit windows.
\par Conversion Free: Our native mode conversion-free ADPCM editing technology lets you edit, record and play instantly!
\par Any Length File: Our disk caching technology lets you edit any length file in just 640k of memory!
\par Indexed File support: Edit Indexed (VBase/40\'99) formatted files as easily as pure ADPCM.
\par Add Your Own Applications: Add Voice Mail Power to your Windows application with TI/F DLL, our Telephone Interface Dynamic Link Library. Communicate with the voice mail hardware from Visual Basic, C, or any Windows compatible programming environment.

\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc341333319}New Features for Version 3.{\*\bkmkend _Toc341333319}2:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Long file name support for Windows \lquote 95 and Windows NT.
\par Significantly improved fidelity when using Multimedia (SoundBlaster or equivalent) boards for playback and record.
\par Telephony board wave driver support.
\par Support for new telephony board wave files and playback in extended formats.
\par Support for custom frequencies in Device Select dialog box for better playback and record fidelity.
\par File list boxes numerically sorts file names, i.e., sorts 200.vox after 1.vox.
\par File Import now remembers file types.
\par Position of last file used in file list box goes to bottom to make sequencing through files easier.
\par Directory list label truncates logically.
\par Improved 6 pole filtering: For example, A 3 kHz tone pasted into a 8 kHz file retains significantly larger frequency content.
\par Now supports and logically handles read-only files.
\par Inhibits DOS TSR selection on Windows NT; inhibits Audio Device Select if no devices are present.
\par Auto-select index on command line available for customers wishing to integrate with their applications.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Features for Version 3.0:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Native mode editing support for new formats: Dialogic 4 bit, 6 & 8 kHz, Dialogic 8 bit, 6 & 8 kHz, CCITT G.711 u-Law 8 kHz, CCITT G.711 a-Law 8 kHz, CCITT G.721 8 kHz, unsigned binary 8 bit (1 to 64 kHz), l
inear 16 bit (1 to 64 kHz), Multimedia Wave 8 bit (11.025, 22.050, 44.1 kHz), Multimedia Wave 16 bit (11.025, 22.050, 44.1 kHz), NewVoice CVSD (16, 24 & 32 kHz), Perception Technology CVSD (32 kHz).
\par Record and Playback audio using any Windows compatible sound board, Dialogic compatible telephony card, and even works with the PC Speaker driver. Device Select displays current sound card`s basic capabilities.
\par Complete multiple-level binary UnDo / ReDo for any and all editing operations (disk space permitting)
\par Icon bar provides rapid access to File New, Open, Save; Edit Cut, Copy, Paste, Crop, Trim silence & Erase; Volume Up, Down, Normalize; Play, Play loop, Rewind, Restart, & Record.
\par File Open pre-selects previous file for rapid selection of next file in edit sequence; retains previous session defaults. File menu contains most recently used file list.
\par Multiple Document Interface permits multiple files in multiple formats open at same time.
\par Graphical control of cursor position for play, record, paste \ldblquote at\rdblquote  point.
\par Auto-scroll selection region at screen border when zoomed in.
\par Graphical and text display shows total length, selected length, current position. Graphical display of file overview and relative position in total file.
\par Color enhanced display of selection region to improve user response.
\par Record display show elapsed time of record; at marker shows current position.
\par Dynamic re-sampling and filtering for Play, Record, Import, Export, Paste and insert operations.
\par Play, Play loop, Play fast forward; Restart from previous.
\par Dual recording modes for Overlay (record over, up to a specified length) and Replace (replace selected section with new).
\par User preferences for automatically selecting whole file or extents and for auto-padding with silence.
\par Record display volume level meter for more precise recording and trouble shooting.
\par Progress bar shows percentage complete for all operations estimated to exceed 1 second elapsed time.
\par Full import / export to and from Pure, indexed and wave with automatic filtering & conversion capability. Filter options available for conversion methods.
\par Auto-Trim silence from specified range or from region.
\par Volume normalize to optimum level.
\par Indexed file select Next, Previous, First and Last menu items and hot keys.
\par Indexed text font selection for improved usability.
\par Indexed text edit full cut, paste, crop and clipboard support.
\par New Effects: Change frequency (up or down), Dynamic compress / expand for improved dynamic range, echo with adjustable length and decay, 8 band graphic equalizer, multiple 
track mix, volume normalize, reduce noise, generate tones, rapid access volume up and down.
\par FFT filtering and Spectral View make it easy to filter and analyze audio with high precision.
\par Auto gain adjust dynamic compressor / expander. Compress/Expand/Limit dynamic range. Can also act as a noise gate to silence audio between spoken words.
\par Architecture supports installable DLL`s for enhanced PCM and file types.
\par Multi-tasking support for time consuming calculations and file operations.
\par Fully compatible with TI/F DLL version 1.21 (and above) and Audio ToolBox version 3.x libraries and DLL`s.
\par Full user interface Visual Basic source available to create your own editor with our Editor Software Development Kit ({\b\i VFEdit} SDK).
\par Key-lock and demo version support for OEM`s and system integrators.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 Enhancements for Version 3.0:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Initialization parameters available from menus and dialog boxes; retains last session dialog box settings.
\par Status bar display of current file type and current audio device.
\par Menu captions show \ldblquote file changed\rdblquote  indicator.
\par Full control of Telephony board configuration parameters during audio device selection.
\par Indexed file save operations significantly faster; faster movement between indices.
\par Indexed file length increased to 5000 entries.
\par Indexed file text increased to 16 K bytes.
\par All text moved to resources for simplified internationalization.
\par ADPCM DC filters improved to 1/8 for better noise reduction
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refAudDoc}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Editing Audio Files}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Editing Audio Files}}Editing Audio Files
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}
 affords wide flexibility in handling data with the 10 main menu items: File, Index, Edit, View, Effects, Play, Record, Options, Window, and Help. Under each main heading there are assorted options yielding numerous variations in ways the files and their 
included data can be manipulated.
\par This section covers specific information relating to the use of each menu item.
\par {\uldb\cf11 File Menu}{\v refFileMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Index Menu}{\v refIndexMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Edit Menu}{\v refEditMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 View Menu}{\v refViewMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Effects Menu}{\v refEffectsMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Play/Record Menu}{\v refPlayRecordMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Options Menu}{\v refOptionsMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Window Menu}{\v refWindowMenu}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Help Menu}{\v refHelpMenu}
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refFileMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} File Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 File Menu;File}}File Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 Sound waves, converted to binary-number data, are stored in computer memory as files by the audio hardware. These files are displayed by {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\super {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 210 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt
\f1\fs20}}} as waveforms, the shapes of which are analogous to the characteristics of the recorded sound. Thus{\b\i  VFEdit} lets you \ldblquote see\rdblquote 
 the binary numbers that have been stored on your computer by your audio hardware. Just as the contents of a spreadsheet file are made intelligible and useable by a spreadsheet program, so are the binary amplitude values made useful by {\b\i VFEdit}. {
\b\i VFEdit} stores these large amounts of data on files on your computer hard disk. Unlike most other editors, {\b\i VFEdit} does not load a copy of its data into memory when you open a sound file\emdash 
all editing is done directly on the data stored on the hard disk. This allows {\b\i VFEdit} to edit sound files of any size\emdash up to your available disk space.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc343523056}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664762}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664903}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345665089}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826775}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345845312}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345927712}
{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345944267}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc346039533}When would you use File?{\*\bkmkend _Toc343523056}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664762}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664903}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345665089}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826775}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345845312}
{\*\bkmkend _Toc345927712}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345944267}{\*\bkmkend _Toc346039533}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b File Menu} is the gateway in to and out of {\b\i VFEdit}
 and your disk storage areas. You can think of filenames and pathnames as a mailing addresses pointing to where you saved your recordings. Without these filenames and pathnames, the disk drive could never find anything. Filenames and pathnames give the fi
les a \ldblquote mailing address\rdblquote  so that the disk drive can go get it out for you. The files themselves are the actual recordings of your audio information, in one`s and zeroes on magnetic media.
\par The {\b File Menu}
 allows you to open a file that already contains recorded data, or create a new file containing no recorded data. You can save your work to a previously specified file, or save it to a completely new file. At the end of your edit session, you may use this
 menu to exit the program.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refIndexMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Index Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Index Menu; Index}}Index Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super \'ae} supports Pure (raw audio data), Indexed (VBase/40), and Multimedia Wave 
(headered) files. Pure files contain only the digitized sound. Indexed and Wave files contain raw audio data plus additional format, control, and annotation information. Indexed files permit you to group related audio segments, then access those segments 
by specifying an index number.
\par Since Indexed files contain additional format, control, and annotation information, you can make each separate sound segment just the way you want and then you can play these back by number. {\b\i VFEdit} stores all of this special i
nformation in a file header that is saved with the file.
\par The Index Menu is your doorway into and out of these library collections of styled sound segments, much as the File Menu is your doorway into and out of the files themselves. You might as well say that an \ldblquote Indexed\rdblquote 
 file is a sort of archive library. It is a whole collection of smaller sound bites, all stored as sub-files, within the larger library file. Having your sound bites arranged into an Indexed file is like an audio CD, where each piece of musi
c can be accessed by its number.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc343523069}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664774}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664915}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345665101}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826787}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345845324}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345927724}
{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345944279}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc346039545}When would you use Index?{\*\bkmkend _Toc343523069}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664774}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664915}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345665101}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826787}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345845324}
{\*\bkmkend _Toc345927724}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345944279}{\*\bkmkend _Toc346039545}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Index Menu} allows you to select an audio segment that already contains recorded data, or create a new segment containing no recorded data. You can also delete an old or unused segment. {\b\i VFEdit}
 automatically expands and contracts the indexed file to accommodate new recordings or to eliminate any wasted space.
\par Suppose that you have a collection of sound bites in various Index files. You can browse the \ldblquote Table of Contents\rdblquote  lists to find out where tha
t sound of a fire engine or where you put that segment of the kitty purring. Indexed files let you create a kind of \ldblquote clip-sound\rdblquote  collection, much like a clip-art collection.
\par But before you can use the {\b Index Menu}, you must choose the {\b File Type} of {\b Indexed Audio (*.vap)} in the {\b File New} or {\b File Open} dialog box.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEditMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Edit Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Edit Menu;Edit}}Edit Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 210 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f1\fs20}}} is a graphical audio editor that lets you \ldblquote see\rdblquote  the binary numbers that have been stored on your computer ha
rd disk by your telephony or multimedia hardware. {\b\i VFEdit} knows how to translate these digitized and encoded audio signals into a picture that is meaningful to you and me. Similarly, {\b\i VFEdit} knows how to take common editing commands such as 
\ldblquote Play\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Cut\rdblquote  and perform the requested operation on the hardware and the data. Use the {\b Edit Menu} to:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Change the size or layout of audio segments.
\par Transfer sections of sound within and between audio files using the electronic \ldblquote clipboard\rdblquote .
\par Generate tones or periods of silence.
\par Select and move within a file.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc343523074}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664785}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664926}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345665112}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826798}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345845335}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345927735}
{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345944290}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc346039556}When would you use Edit?{\*\bkmkend _Toc343523074}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664785}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664926}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345665112}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826798}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345845335}
{\*\bkmkend _Toc345927735}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345944290}{\*\bkmkend _Toc346039556}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sa120 \f5\fs20 
As an example, suppose that you are working on a new outgoing message for your voice mail system. You might want to change portions of the message from time to time, without totally re-recording it. Instead of completely starting over you can select just 
the noisy part, or record that itsy bitsy part that went wrong, over again, and if necessary, again and again, fine-tuning it until it sounds perfect. Having a sound file editor gives us whole ne
w capabilities that we never had with plain old tape recorders. With {\b\i VFEdit} you even build up a collection of messages for different occasions.
\par In {\b\i VFEdit}, the {\b Edit Menu} is what really makes the program like an audio word processor. {\b\i VFEdit}
 uses visual display of the loudness of the sounds versus time to show you exactly where a certain sound starts and stops. You can then use the {\b Edit Menu} to do the usual word processing stuff like {\b Cut, Copy} and {\b Paste}, {\b Delete,} and {\b 
Erase}, plus some other commands specially designed for handling audio.
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 If you were doing something creative with audio sound bites, like putting together a radio news story, or a commercial, you might use the {\b Edit Menu} to {\b Copy} something from one sound file and{\b  Paste}
 it into a different sound file. With an Indexed File, you can organize a scrapbook of audio segments, and then use {\b Copy} and {\b Paste} to insert them into another file.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refViewMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} View Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 View Menu;View}}View Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b View Menu} controls the appearance of the audio file in your work area. The {\b View Menu}
 lets you change the current view resolution, thereby changing the quantity and detail of the voice data that appears in the edit window.
\par The center of the waveform is displayed by a center line divided into major and minor division marks. Major and minor divisions are identified by the long and short tick marks, respectively. Major divisions are marked by long tick marks on the center hori
zontal axis, and are annotated with the time on the lower horizontal axis.
\par View resolution is specified as milliseconds (1/1000{\super th}
 of a second) per major division. The waveform display contains 20 major divisions, each of which is subdivided into 5 minor divisions. At the default medium resolution, each minor division contains 4 waveform graph points.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664798}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664939}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345665125}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826811}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345845349}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345927749}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345944305}
{\*\bkmkstart _Toc346039571}When would you use View?{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664798}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664939}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345665125}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826811}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345845349}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345927749}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345944305}
{\*\bkmkend _Toc346039571}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 Resolution parameters affect the graphical representation of the audio data. {\b View Resolution }changes the assumed sampling frequency used to compute the waveform display. {\b View Resolution }Low/Medi
um/High Resolution changes the display resolution used when selecting {\b View Resolution }Low/Medium/High Resolution
\par {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super \'ae} can display a waveforms at very high resolutions (1 sample per graph point) and very low resolutions (32,000 samples per graph point). When you change {\b View Resolution} parameters, {\b\i VFEdit}
 automatically checks to ensure that the values are within range. If the values are outside of range, {\b\i VFEdit} will issue a warning \ldblquote beep\rdblquote  and reset the parameters to their previous values.
\par The following discussion assumes that you are using the default {\b\i VFEdit} resolution values. You may change the default Low, Medium and High Resolution values using the {\b View Configure} menu described later in this chapter.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEffectsMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Effects Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Effects Menu;Effects}}Effects Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 After you`ve stored the audio signal onto your computer hard disk, what can you do with it? Well, just as a word processor lets you manipulate the words and pictures that make up a document, {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super \'ae}
 lets you edit sound in much the same way. You can make a sound \ldblquote bold\rdblquote  by increasing its volume; make it \ldblquote italic\rdblquote  by changing the pitch.
\par The {\b Effects Menu} lets you work on the original sound recording and make it fancier. With {\b Effects Change Frequency}, you can change the frequency it is recorded in. With {\b Effects Echo}
, you can sound as if you are talking in a huge sound-reflective room. You can {\b Fade In} or {\b Fade Out} certain syllables, {\b Mix} in music from other files, submit the whole palette of frequencies to an {\b Equalizer}
, or adjust the volume of the stored sound file image with {\b Volume Up,} {\b Volume Down}, and {\b Normalize}. You also can edit out background hiss with {\b Reduce Noise }or{\b  }improve the depth and range of the voice quality with {\b 
Effects Dynamic Compress/Expand}. In short, the {\b Effects Menu }lets you create files that sound like you hired a professional sound studio to help you make a tape.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb120 \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664806}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345664947}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345665133}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826819}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345845358}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345927758}{\*\bkmkstart _Toc345944314}
{\*\bkmkstart _Toc346039580}When would you use Effects?{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664806}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345664947}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345665133}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826819}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345845358}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345927758}{\*\bkmkend _Toc345944314}
{\*\bkmkend _Toc346039580}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 Imagine you have a travel agency. You want your voice system to call your clients, promote a week in Hawaii, and play some exotic Hawaiian hula 
music to set the scene. (Studies have shown that adding music to an audio phone message can increase retention level by as much as 30%.) With just a few mouse clicks you can mix that music into the background of your sales pitch.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refPlayRecordMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Play/Record Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Play/Record Menu;Play;Record}}Play/Record Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super \'ae} provides a convenient user interface to your audio hardware for recording new sounds and listening to audio already recorded. Use the {\b Play Menu} and {\b Record Menu} to:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Play an audio segment once or multiple times.
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 Record a new file or record over an old audio segment.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refOptionsMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Options Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Options Menu;Options}}Options Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Options Menu} lets you control {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super \'ae} operational preferences and features of you audio hardware. Use the Options Menu to:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Indicate that the entire file should be used if you have not selected an audio segment.
\par Control file backup during save operations
\par Determine whether {\b\i VFEdit} \ldblquote back fills: with silence during edit operations.
\par Turn Undo/ReDo on or off.
\par Set the location of temporary files.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refWindowMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Window Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Window Menu;Window}}Window Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 Use the {\b Window Menu} to arrange the audio graph windows and any minimized documents on your screen. When working with a large number of files, this command provides a convenient way to arrange them on the screen. The {
\b Window Menu} lets you:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826847}Window Cascade{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826847}: overlap all non-minimized audio graph windows so that the title bar and left edge are visible.
\par {\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826848}Window Tile{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826848}: arrange all non-minimized audio graph windows in a grid, top to bottom, right to left.
\par {\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826849}Window Arrange Icons{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826849}: arrange all minimized audio graph windows along the bottom of the screen.
\par {\*\bkmkstart _Toc345826850}Active Window List{\*\bkmkend _Toc345826850}: lets you select an audio graph window to active from the list of current windows.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refHelpMenu}${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Help Menu}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 Help Menu;Help}}Help Menu
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 You can get help in several ways. For example, you can use the Help button on dialog boxes or choose Search for Help On from the Help menu. Use the {\b Help menu} to:
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Display the contents list of the help file.
\par Search for help by key word.
\par Get detailed information on obtaining technical support.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refFilOpn}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} File Open}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} File Open}}File Open / Save As / Import / Export
\par \pard\plain \s26\sa120 \f5\fs20 The {\b File Open} menu command retrieves and displays a previously saved audio file. When you select this command, the file selection dialog appears. Here you may select the name of the file you wish to edit.
\par This dialog box looks like the usual Windows File Open dialog box, except for the addition of a button named Format. If click there you will get an additional dialog box that looks much like the {\b File New}
 dialog box. (Note, however, that the File Type button isn`t active since that is selected from the main {\b File Open} dialog box.) Use the {\b File Open}
 dialog to select an existing file (browse until you find one you like) or cancel to return to the main screen. If you type in only the file name, then {\b\i VFEdit}{\b\i\super \'ae} assumes that you mean the current directory.
\par To select a file from the list of files, double-click the file name with the mouse (or use <TAB>, position the highlight bar and press <Enter>).
\par To specify a different directory, move the cursor to the File Name text box and enter the new search specification. A new list of files will appear.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 File Name
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 After selecting \ldblquote File Open\rdblquote 
 you may select the name of the file you wish to edit. The file specification may be up to forty characters in length, and may include a drive letter and directory specification. If no drive or directory is specified, the curren
t drive and directory are used.
\par To select a file from the list of files, double-click the file name with the mouse (or use <TAB>, position the highlight bar and press enter). 
\par To specify a different directory, move the cursor to the \ldblquote File Name\rdblquote  box and enter the new search specification. A new list of files will appear. 
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 File Type
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK4}VFEdit}
 supports Pure (raw audio data), Indexed (VBase/40), and Multimedia Wave (headered) files. Pure files contain only the digitized sound. Indexed and Wave files contain raw audio data plus additional format, control, a
nd annotation information. Indexed files permit you to group related audio segments, then access those segments by specifying an index number. It is important that you select the proper file format when opening a file. The type of file selected appears in
 text below the \ldblquote List Files of Type\rdblquote  drop-down box. You may specify the type of file (Pure or Indexed) by clicking the mouse on the drop-down box button.
\par {\b\i VFEdit} supports many different file types and data formats. You may need to review information provided by your system vendor to determine which one is best for your particular needs.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK4}Data Format
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Data Format: What kind of data is stored in the file? Which of the many specialized encoding methods does it use?
\par {\b\i VFEdit} supports many different file types and data formats. You may need to review information provided by your system vendor to determine which one is best for your particular needs.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Selected Region Only (Export)
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Permits export of specific region of an audio file.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Filters (Import and Export)
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing 2nd order
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Low pass 2nd order anti-alias filter off/ on/ fast (Default is \ldblquote on\rdblquote ). Use the default \ldblquote on\rdblquote  setting for standard fidelity. Use \ldblquote fast\rdblquote 
 for standard fidelity with improved speed on 286/386 class computers. Use \ldblquote off\rdblquote  for maximum conversion speed.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing FFT low pass
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Low pass anti-aliasing FFT filter on/ off (Default is \ldblquote off\rdblquote ). Use the \ldblquote on\rdblquote  setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 FFT interpolation resampling
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Re-sample FFT filter on/ off (Default is \ldblquote off\rdblquote ). Use the \ldblquote on\rdblquote  setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refFilFmt}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} File Data Format}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} File Data Format}}File Data Format
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 
Computer perceives sound in terms of sample size, expressed as bits per sample. The lowest possible fidelity is one bit per sample; compact disk recordings are made at sixteen bits per sample. Telephone networks typically use four and eight bit samples fo
r recording. Computers add an extra twist called encoding, that is, the ability to store amplitu
des in non-linear binary formats. This allows the computer to store amplitudes that require less sensitivity with fewer bits. Recordings made at 8 bits/samples will not sound right if played at 4 bits per sample. Similarly, recordings made at 8,000 sample
s per second will sound too slow if played back at 6,000 samples per second.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 File Type
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} supports both Pure (raw amplitude data), Multimedia Wave, and Indexed (VBase) format files. Pure files contain only digitized sound; Multimedia Wave and indexed fi
les contain a groups of digitized sound, plus format and annotation text. It is important that you select the proper file format when opening a file.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Data Format
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 
Computer perceives sound in terms of sample size, expressed as bits per sample. The lowest possible fidelity is one bit per sample; compact disk recordings are made at sixteen bits per sample. Telephone networks typically use four and eight bit samples fo
r recording. Computers add an extra twist called encoding, that is, the ability to store amplitudes in non-linear binary formats. This allows the computer to store amplitudes that require less sensitivity with fewer bits.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Frequency
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 
Frequency of output file. Use this setting to override the sample frequency of the destination audio file. Recordings made at 8 bits/samples will not sound right if played at 4 bits per sample. Similarly, recordings made at 8,000 samples per second will s
ound too slow if played back at 6,000 samples per second.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refFntSel}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Font Selection}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Font Selection}}Font Selection
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}
 lets you change the font used to view the text annotation. This is especially useful if someone needs to read the text while recording an audio segment, or if the annotation text is in a font requiring a special character set.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Name
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Font name.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Size
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Font size.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refViwCfg}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} View Configure}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} View Configure}}View Configure
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b View Menu} controls the appearance of the audio file in your work area. The {\b View Menu}
 lets you change the current view resolution, thereby changing the quantity and detail of the voice data that appears in the edit window.
\par The center of the waveform is displayed by a center line divided into major and minor division marks. Major and minor divisions are identified by the long and short tick marks, respectively. Major divisions are marked by long tick marks on the center hori
zontal axis, and are annotated with the time on the lower horizontal axis.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Display Resolution (msec/div)
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 View resolutio
n is specified as milliseconds (1/1000th of a second) per major division. Major divisions are marked by long tick marks on the horizontal axes, and are annotated with the time on the lower horizontal axis.
\par Major and minor divisions are identified by the long and short tick marks that appear on the lower horizontal display.
\par The waveform display contains 20 major divisions, each of which is subdivided into 5 minor divisions. Each minor division contains 4 waveform graph points.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Resolution Low
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The {\b View Resolution Low}
 menu command allows you to change the current view resolution to 2,000 milliseconds (2 seconds) per major division. This means, for example, that a file digitized at 6,000 samples per second will be displayed such that 12,000 data samples appear within o
ne major division. By similar calculations, this setting will let you view 40 seconds of voice data at any one time.
\par Use this setting for coarse overviews of the file of interest, and for the overview and comparison of several files.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Resolution Medium
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The {\b View Resolution Medium}
 menu command allows you to change the current view resolution to 500 milliseconds (.5 seconds) per major division. This means, for example, that a file digitized at 6,000 samples per second will be displayed such that 3,000 data samples appear within one
 major division. By similar calculations, this setting will let you view 10 seconds of voice data at any one time.
\par Use this setting for editing phrases. This is the default setting when {\b\i VFEdit} is first started. This is the recommended scale for general work.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Resolution High
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The {\b View Resolution High}
 menu command allows you to change the current view resolution to 100 milliseconds (.1 seconds) per major division. This means, for example, that a file digitized at 6,000 samples per second will be displayed such that 600 data samples appear within one m
ajor division. By similar calculations, this setting will let you view 2 second of voice data at any one time.
\par Use this setting for editing specific words, and for working with very small increments of file.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refPosSel}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Position Selection}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Position Selection}}Position Selection
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 Specify the time position and length of audio.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Position 
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Beginning position. Time may be specified to {\cf1 1/100}{\cf1\super th} of a second accuracy
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Length
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Overall selection length. Time may be specified to {\cf1 1/100}{\cf1\super th} of a second accuracy
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refExtSel}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Extents Select}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Extents Select}}Extents Select
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} provides two different ways to select a portion of the current file for editing. You may use the mouse or the keyboard to specify the beginning and ending of an audio segment.
\par Use the mouse to select an audio segment by first positioning the mouse at the point of interest displayed on the screen. Then press and hold the mouse button while moving the mouse to the end of the segment. A dashed box will enclose the area you have se
lected. Release the mouse button.
\par If you have not selected a segment for editing by using the mouse, and you {\b have} selected \ldblquote Ask User\rdblquote  from the {\b Options Environment Menu}, {\b\i VFEdit} automatically
 displays a dialog box that allows you to specify the beginning and ending portion of the file (in seconds) that you wish to edit. Time may be specified to {\cf1 1/100}{\cf1\super th} of a second accuracy.
\par See Chapter 3, \ldblquote Sample Session\rdblquote  for more information on using the mouse and keyboard.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 From
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Beginning position. Time may be specified to {\cf1 1/100}{\cf1\super th} of a second accuracy.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 To
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Ending position. Time may be specified to {\cf1 1/100}{\cf1\super th} of a second accuracy
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEdtCfg}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Edit Configuration}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Edit Configuration}}Edit Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Edit Configure} menu allows you to change edit parameters. After selecting {\b Edit Configure}, you will be presented with a dialog box that allows you to adjust internal editing variables.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Trim Silence
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Changes the setting for the automatic trim option.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Threshold
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 
Sets the level of audio that is considered as sound (non-silence a maximum percentage (Default is 2%). Use this setting to change the audio level interpreted as "sound". Higher values result in higher immunity to noise, but lower sensitivity to sound.

\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Guard Time
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Sets the amount of time to leave at either end of trim. Increase the guard time for more silence at the beginning & end, decrease for less time.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEffMix}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Effects Mix}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Effects Mix}}Effects Mix
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects} {\b Mix} menu command allows you to mix audio data from another file. With this feature, you can add in another sound track from another file, merging the sounds. {\b Effects} {\b Mix}
 is useful for adding background sound or music to your audio presentations.
\par After selecting {\b Edit Mix }you will be presented with a dialog box that lets you select the name of the file from which to retrieve sound and adjust the relative volume levels of each file.
\par To select a file from the list of files, select \ldblquote Browse\rdblquote 
 and double-click the file name with the mouse (or position the highlight bar and press enter). To specify a different directory, move the cursor to the directory box and enter the new search specifi
cation. You may specify the type of file by clicking the mouse on the \ldblquote Format\rdblquote  button.
\par By defa
ult, the relative volume level of each file is set to 50%. This will mix equal levels of each file into the final recording. Normally, the volume levels of the two files will sum to 100%. If you use values that sum to less than 100%, you will reduce the o
verall volume level of the resulting sound. If you use values over 100%, you will increase the overall volume level of the resulting sound.
\par When you select a segment that is shorter than the \ldblquote Mix From\rdblquote  sound, {\b\i VFEdit} only mixes sound for the segment requested. When you select a segment that is longer than the \ldblquote Mix From\rdblquote  sound, {\b\i VFEdit}
 only mixes sound for the extent of the \ldblquote Mix From\rdblquote  source.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Track 0/1
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 File name; track is current file.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 File Name
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Name and format of file.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Mix level
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Overall volume level of file.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEffEqu}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Effects Equalize}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Effects Equalize}}Effects Equalize
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects Equalize} command lets you can fine tune the sound of your words, to change the quality of the vibrations themselves. While a microphone records the whole range of vibration
 in sound levels, the equalizer can be used to make certain ranges softer and other ranges louder, so that the net effect makes you sound different.
\par When you select {\b Effects Equalize}
, you will be presented with a dialog box that lets you adjust the relative levels of frequency bands. By moving the controls up or down from the center point, you will increase or decrease the volume level of the audio in those frequency bands. After adj
usting the frequency band controls, press \ldblquote Equalize\rdblquote  to apply the changes to the recorded audio.
\par When you select {\b Effects Equalize}, you will be presented with a dialog box that lets you display the current frequency content of the audio file. Press the \ldblquote Show\rdblquote 
 button to see a three-dimensional representation of the frequency spectrum.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Equalize
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Apply equalizer settings to current file.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Show
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Show the frequency contents of the file.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refTonGen}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Tone Generation}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Tone Generation}}Tone Generation
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects Tone} {\b Generator }command allows you to insert Dual Tone 
Multi-Frequency signals (DTMF Touch-Tones) into a file. You might want to have special messages that you send to your answering machine at home to pickup your incoming messages. This way, you can mix voice messages and touch-tone codes together in the sam
e outgoing message.
\par After selecting {\b Effects Tone} {\b Generator }you will be presented with a dialog box that allows you to specify the tone frequency, duration and amplitude. The \ldblquote Generate Tones\rdblquote  dialog box allows you to set the following parameters:

\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 DTMF: Specify the pre-set touch-tone frequency to insert.
\par % Amplitude: Specify tone signal level as a percentage of maximum. The default value of 80% should be appropriate for most applications.
\par Custom: Specify user-defined tones by frequency and amplitude.
\par Length: Specify the duration of the tone to 1/1000 of a second accuracy.
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The default settings for amplitude and length will work well for most applications. Simply select the DTMF touch-tone you need to create. You may customize the DTMF frequencies for countries o
utside North America. See Appendix A, \ldblquote Configuration\rdblquote  for more information.
\par After selecting \ldblquote OK\rdblquote  from the {\b Effects Tone} {\b Generator }dialog box the new tone will be inserted at the point marked by the triangular insertion \ldblquote At Position\rdblquote .
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 DTMF
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 DTMF: Specify the pre-set Touch-Tone\'ae frequency to insert.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 % Amplitude
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Specify tone signal level as a percentage of maximum.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Custom
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Specify user-defined tones.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Frequency (Hz)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Length: Specify the frequency of the tone in cycles per second.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 % Amplitude
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Peak volume level of the tone.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Length
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Length: Specify the duration of the tone to 1/1000 of a second accuracy.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEffCfg}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Effects Configuration}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Effects Configuration}}Effects Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects Configure} menu allows you to change effects parameters. After selecting {\b Effects Configure}, you will be presented with a dialog box that allows you to specify the parameters described below.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Change Frequency
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b Effects Change Frequency} allows you to change the pitch and speed of a recording. Changing by 
values greater than 100% will increase the pitch and speed up the audio. Changing by values less than 100% will decrease the pitch and slow down the speed of the audio.
\par Use {\b Effects Change Frequency }command when you have a recording that was produced on hardware set for a different sampling frequency, or if you want to make a voice sound higher or deeper.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Multiply by (%)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Multiply by %\rdblquote  parameter lets you increase (greater than 100%) or decrease (less than 100%) the pitch and speed of the audio.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Dynamic Compress/Expand
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b Effects Dynamic Compress/Expand} allows you to{\b  }
improve dynamic range of the audio. The dynamic compressor/expander works by analyzing the audio signal and increasing the volume level on sections that are too soft while decreasing the volume level on sections that are to loud.
\par Use this command to{\b  }improve the \ldblquote depth\rdblquote  and \ldblquote range\rdblquote  of the recorded voice.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Maximum (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Maximum\rdblquote  parameter limits the amount that the compressor/expander will increase or decrease the volume level of the audio. Incr
ease this number (expressed in decibels) for a more noticeable effect.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Echo
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Effects Echo\rdblquote  menu is used to permanently add echo to the stored audio data.
\par Use \ldblquote Effects Echo\rdblquote  to add depth to a recording. For example, many vocalists add a small amount of echo to their voice to improve the sound. Add a larger amount of echo to liven your recordings with a \ldblquote hall-like\rdblquote 
 ambience. Add an even larger amount of echo to produce chorus effects.
\par When you select \ldblquote Effects Echo\rdblquote , {\b\i VFEdit} mixes a delayed portion of the recorded audio with the current sound. The delay time and attenuation level are specified using the \ldblquote Effects Configure\rdblquote 
 menu. These parameters are expressed in seconds and decibels respectively.
\par Technically speaking, \ldblquote Effects Echo\rdblquote  attenuates audio samples (as specified by the decay parameter) from a prior time (as specified by the delay parameter) and mixes them with the current sample.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Delay time (sec)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Delay\rdblquote  parameter specifies the time delay of the signal fed back into the original. The default time
 of 20 seconds produces an intelligible, noticeable echo effect with minimal distortion. Other values produce different feedback time delays. Smaller delay times produce a less noticeable echo effect, while larger delay times will produce more noticeable 
effects.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Decay (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Decay\rdblquote 
 setting specifies the decay attenuation level of the signal fed back into the original. The default level of -6 dB produces an intelligible, noticeable echo effect with minimal distortion. Other values produce different feedb
ack levels for the decay attenuation. Positive values will produce distortion (the signal level will increase geometrically). Smaller negative values will produce a more noticeable echo effect while larger negative values will produce less noticeable effe
cts.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Fade In
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects Fade In} menu command is used to permanently change the volume level of the stored audio data. {\b Effects Fade In}
 gradually increases the volume level from a specified low volume point to a specified final volume point. This adjusts the amplitude of the sounds so that the volume is higher and increasing toward the end of the selected audio segment.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Start Level (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Start Level\rdblquote 
 sets the volume level beginning point (in decibels) used when performing a fade in operation. The default setting of -20 dB specifies that the volume level at the beginning of the fade will be 1/100{\super th}
 (dB = 10 log New/Old) of the of the original signal. This means that the volume level at the beginning of the fade will be nearly silent. Other values specify di
fferent beginning volume levels for the fade operation. Negative values specify that the beginning level should be quieter; 0 specifies that the level should be unchanged from the original; positive values specify that the beginning should be amplified.

\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Stop Level (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Stop Level\rdblquote 
 sets the volume level end point (in decibels) used when performing a fade in operation. The default setting of 0 dB specifies that the volume level at the end of the fade will be the same as the original signal, i.e., unchang
ed. Other values specify different ending volume levels for the fade operation. Negative values specify that the end level should be quieter; 0 specifies that the level should be unchanged from the original; positive values specify that the end should be 
amplified.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Fade Out
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b Effects Fade Out}
 gradually decreases the volume level from a specified high volume point to a specified final volume point. This adjusts the amplitude of the sounds, so that the volume decreases toward the end of the segment.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Start Level (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Start Level\rdblquote 
 sets the volume level beginning point (in decibels) used when performing a fade in operation. The default setting of -20 dB specifies that the volume level at the beginning of the fade will be 1/100{\super th}
 (dB = 10 log New/Old) of the of the original signal. This means that the volume level at the beginning of the fade will be nearly silent. Other values specify different beginning volume levels for the fade operation. Negative values specify that the begi
nning level should be quieter; 0 specifies that the level should be unchanged from the original; positive values specify that the beginning should be amplified.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Stop Level (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Stop Level\rdblquote 
 sets the volume level end point (in decibels) used when performing a fade in operation. The default setting of 0 dB specifies that the volume level at the end of the fade will be the same as the original signal, i.e., unchanged. Other val
ues specify different ending volume levels for the fade operation. Negative values specify that the end level should be quieter; 0 specifies that the level should be unchanged from the original; positive values specify that the end should be amplified.

\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Normalize
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b Effects Normalize} scans the selected audio segment and tries to set the maximum volume level \ldblquote To\rdblquote  an ideal target level with a permissible number of \ldblquote Over\rdblquote 
 exceptions. The ideal \ldblquote To\rdblquote  level is the volume level that would be achieved if the signal were a perfectly symmetrical wave; the \ldblquote Over\rdblquote  exceptions compensate for the fact that most real audio waveforms are 
not symmetrical. The \ldblquote To\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Over\rdblquote  settings may be changed using the {\b Effects Configure} menu.
\par When you normalize a file,{\b\i  VFEdit}
 sets the levels of the file to an optimum level based upon a theoretical ideal. If you normalize multiple files, one at a time, the end result will be that they are each equal to an ideal, thus they each equal each other. You may remember from your schoo
l mathematics that if A=Z and B=Z, then A=B. This is the same basic principle used for equalizing multiple files, one at a time.
\par Use {\b Effects Normalize} to adjust the overall volume level of a file so that a group of files will sound roughly equal.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 To (% max)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote To\rdblquote 
 level is the volume level that would be achieved if the signal were a perfectly symmetrical wave. This parameter is expressed as a percentage of the maximum amplitude possible with the current data format. The default value of 80% should be appro
priate for most applications.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Over (% total)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Over\rdblquote  exceptions compensate for the fact that most real audio waveforms are no
t symmetrical. Allow the volume to go over target range some percentage of times in order to achieve a better overall level. Set this parameter to zero to force no portion of this signal to go over the target level.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Reduce Noise
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects Reduce Noise}
 menu command reduces the volume level of amplitude values that fall below a specified threshold. When you have a scratchy sounding segment, this feature can help to smooth out the extraneous sound. {\b Effects Reduce Noise}
 is useful for reducing certain types of background noise or hiss. The effectiveness of noise gate processing varies tremendously depending the nature of the noise, and the recording fidelity of the surrounding signal.
\par When you select{\b  Effects Reduce Noise,} {\b\i VFEdit} reduces the volume level of all signals below a specified threshold. The threshold may be changed using the {\b Effects Configure}
 menu. This parameter is expressed as a percentage of the maximum amplitude possible with the current data format. Technically speaking, {\b Effects Reduce Noise} further attenuates the voltage level of any signal below threshold by the specified amount.

\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Attenuation (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Attenuation\rdblquote  parameter setting (expressed in decibels) is the amount that the volume level will be reduced by the {\b Effects Reduce Noise}
 command. Larger negative values will produce a more noticeable effect.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Threshold (% max)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The \ldblquote Threshold\rdblquote  parameter sets the noise reduction threshold as a percentage of the maximum signal level. The default setting of 3% specifies that any signal below 3% of maximum w
ill be reduced in volume. This level is useful for reducing many types of background noise with minimal distortion. Other values specify different threshold levels. A larger number increases the amount of reduction, but may introduce distortion; smaller v
alues decrease the amount of noise reduction.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Volume Up, Down
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 The {\b Effects Volume Up} and {\b Effects Volume Down} commands adjust the amplitude of the selected sound segment by the number of decibels that you have chosen in the {\b Effects Configure} dialog box.
\par The {\b Effects Volume Up, Down} commands permanently changes the loudness (volume level) of a previously recorded file. Use this command when an existing recording was too loud, or when a portion of a recording was not loud enough.
\par Technically speaking,{\b  Effects Volume Up, Down} attenuates the signal voltage by the specified decibel level.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Up (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Default settings for \ldblquote Volume Up\rdblquote  menu and tool bar items. A value of 3 dB specifies that the volume level will increase by two. Negative values specify that the level should
 be quieter; positive values specify that the volume level should be increased.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Down (dB)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Default settings for \ldblquote Volume Down\rdblquote 
 menu and tool bar items. A value of -3 dB specifies that the volume level will decrease by half. Negative values specify that the level should be quieter; positive values specify that the volume level should be increased.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refDevSel}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Audio Device Select}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Audio Device Select}}Audio Device Select
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Options Device Select} command lets you specify the audio device to use and controls features of you audio hardware.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Device Type
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit}
 supports Record and Playback using any Windows compatible sound board, Dialogic compatible telephony card, and even works with the PC Speaker driver. Device Select displays current sound card`s basic capabilities.
\par {\b\i VFEdit} supports many different file types and data formats. You may need to review information provided by your system vendor to determine which one is best for your particular needs.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Data Format
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Specify the audio data format to use with the selected device.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Frequency
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Specify the frequency to use with the selected device.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Buffer Blocks
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Specifies the memory resource settings for the selected device.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Length
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Length of each audio buffer.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Count
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Number of audio buffers to use.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refPlaCfg}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Play Configuration}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Play Configuration}}Play Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK6}The {\b Play Configure} dialog box lets you set playback defaults to fit your needs.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Frequency Conversion
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} will automatically convert files recorded at any frequency to match the capabilities of the audio device currently in use.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing Filter
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The anti-aliasing filter removes unwanted high frequencies when converting from a higher to a lower frequency.
\par \pard\plain \s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing 2nd order
\par \pard\plain \s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 The Low pass 2{\super nd}
 order anti-alias filter default is on. Use the default on setting for standard fidelity. Use fast for standard fidelity with improved speed on 286/386 class computers. Use off for maximum conversion speed.
\par \pard\plain \s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing FFT low pass
\par \pard\plain \s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 The Low pass anti-aliasing FFT filter default is off. Use the on setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Resample Algorithm
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The resampling algorithm determines how audio data will be generated or removed to adjust a file for the new frequency.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Linear (normal)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The default algorithm is Linear (normal). Use the default on setting for standard fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 FFT interpolation resampling
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The re-sample FFT filter default is \ldblquote off\rdblquote . Use the \ldblquote on\rdblquote  setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 {\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK6}\page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refRecCfg}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Record Configuration}} {
\cs22\b0\fs24\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Record Configuration}}Record Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Record Configure} dialog box lets you set recording defaults to fit your needs.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Preferences
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 This setting controls operational preferences that can save you time depending upon the type of editing you plan to do.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Record Mode
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 Replace the selected audio (could be whole file) with the new recording or overlay the old audio with the new audio (could be just part of a file).
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK5}Frequency Conversion
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 During recording, {\b\i VFEdit} will automatically convert files recorded at any frequency to match the capabilities of the audio device currently in use.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing Filter
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The anti-aliasing filter removes unwanted high frequencies when converting from a higher to a lower frequency.
\par \pard\plain \s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing 2nd order
\par \pard\plain \s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 The Low pass 2{\super nd}
 order anti-alias filter default is on. Use the default on setting for standard fidelity. Use fast for standard fidelity with improved speed on 286/386 class computers. Use off for maximum conversion speed.
\par \pard\plain \s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing FFT low pass
\par \pard\plain \s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 The Low pass anti-aliasing FFT filter default is off. Use the on setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 {\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK5}Resample Algorithm
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The resampling algorithm determines how audio data will be generated or removed to adjust a file for the new frequency.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Linear (normal)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The default algorithm is Linear (normal). Use the default on setting for standard fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 FFT interpolation resampling
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The re-sample FFT filter default is \ldblquote off\rdblquote . Use the \ldblquote on\rdblquote  setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refFtrCfg}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Filter Configuration}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Filter Configuration}}Filter Configuration
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Frequency Conversion
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} will automatically convert files recorded at any frequency to match the capabilities of the audio device currently in use.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing Filter
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The anti-aliasing filter removes unwanted high frequencies when converting from a higher to a lower frequency.
\par \pard\plain \s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing 2nd order
\par \pard\plain \s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 The Low pass 2{\super nd} order anti-alias filter default is on. Use the default on setting for standard fidelity. Use fast for standard fidelity with improved speed on 286/386 class computers. Use off for maximum 
conversion speed.
\par \pard\plain \s29\li533\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Anti-aliasing FFT low pass
\par \pard\plain \s31\li533\sb120 \f5\fs20 The Low pass anti-aliasing FFT filter default is off. Use the on setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Resample Algorithm
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The resampling algorithm determines how audio data will be generated or removed to adjust a file for the new frequency.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Linear (normal)
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The default algorithm is Linear (normal). Use the default on setting for standard fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 FFT interpolation resampling
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 The re-sample FFT filter default is \ldblquote off\rdblquote . Use the \ldblquote on\rdblquote  setting for best fidelity.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\b0\fs24\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refEnvOpt}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Environment Options}} {\cs22\b0\fs24\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Environment Options}}Environment Options
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb60 \f5\fs20 The {\b Environment} {\b Options }dialog box lets you set global defaults to fit your needs.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Preferences
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 These settings control operational preferences that can save you time depending upon the type of editing you plan to do.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Selection Region Default
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Setting this parameter to \ldblquote Whole File\rdblquote  tells {\b\i VFEdit} that if nothing is currently selected, use the whole file. This is the default setting, and is useful for most work. If you select 
\ldblquote Ask User\rdblquote , then {\b\i VFEdit} will ask you to select an audio segment before performing any operation.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Auto-backup on save
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 This check-box toggles automatic file backup operation on and off. When checked, {\b\i VFEdit} saves the original copy of the voice file as \ldblquote *.BK1\rdblquote 
 whenever you save a file. You may wish to disable this feature when working with very large files, or when disk space is at a premium.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Auto-extend file with silence
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 When editing near the end of a file, setting this parameter \ldblquote on\rdblquote  tells {\b\i VFEdit} to automatically extend the file 
with silence. Turn this setting off if you don`t want to extend so that the new audio is placed at the exact end of the existing audio.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Undo/ Redo On
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Enables or disables the ability to reverse an edit step. You may wish to disable this feature when working with very large files, or when disk space is at a premium.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Temporary Directories
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 These settings control the location of temporary files. Change these parameters if you are on a disk-less workstation or running from a networked drive.
\par Note: the {\f11\fs24 TMP=} variable in the DOS environment overrides these setting for audio and device temporary files.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Work Files
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Set the location of temporary audio edit files.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Device Files
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Set the location of temporary audio device files.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refModVer}}{\super  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Module Verification}}{\super  }{\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s32 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Module Verification}}Module Verification
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} has detected a mismatch between the version numbers of shareable software components. {\b\i VFEdit}
 installs shareable software components into its own directory on your hard disk. Some other program has loaded a differe
nt version of this component into memory. In many cases, the difference between versions will not affect normal operation. You should, however, note the version numbers of the modules found in memory if the product behaves in a peculiar manner.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Module
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Expected
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 This is the expected version of the shareable software component.
\par \pard\plain \s28\li360\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Found
\par \pard\plain \s30\li360\sb120 \f5\fs20 This is the version of the shareable software component currently loaded in memory. Please note this version number for future reference.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Set expected to found version
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 
Once you have verified that the product is behaving normally, you set the loaded version number to the expected version number. That will prevent this message from appearing when the found version is already loaded in memory.
\par \pard\plain \s33\keepn \b\f5\fs28\cf13 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} refVerInf}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Version Information}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Version Information}} Version Information
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Edition
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i VFEdit} manufacturer`s type and version number.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Dynamic Link Libraries (DLL`s)
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Version numbers of DLL`s currently loaded.
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Visual Basic Extensions (VBX`s)
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Version numbers of VBX`s currently loaded
\par \pard\plain \s27\li180\sb120 \b\f5\fs20\cf13 Edit INI File
\par \pard\plain \s34\li180\sb120 \f5\fs20 Use this button to directly edit the {\b\i VFEdit}.Ini file to change default settings.
\par }